# 00.040 Git

I am not requiring people to use git, but I strongly recommend it.

If you have trouble we can work on fixing the problem after school starts.

This will cover very basic git operation.  We will focus on just updating a repository for a single user.  After you get comfortable doing this you can branch out (yes, there is a git pun hiding in there).  It should be enough to bail you out of trouble.

## Installing the git software

* Linux and Mac:  Some Linux systems may have git installed already.  If not, the standard repo for your distribution will almost certainly have git.  That is likely to be easiest method.  Something like `sudo git install git` should work.
* Windows:  Git might be in the Microsoft Store.  But you can get it from [https://git-scm.com/](https://git-scm.com/)

## Configuring Git

You need to configure git before you start using it.

Do the following steps at the command line:

```bash
git config --global user.name "Maxine Griffon"
git config --global user.email mgriffon3@missouriwestern.edu
```

## Set up your github.com account

Create a github account under your @missouriwestern.edu account.  You should get an email inviting you to upgrade to a free pro account.  I suggest that you do the upgrade.

## Create a repo

There are several ways to create a new repo.  I am only giving you one method.

1. Log onto your @missouriwestern.edu github account.
2. Create a new repository
   1. I suggest you call it something like csc345hmwk
   2. Make the repo private
   3. Add a README.md
   4. Add a `.gitignore` file.  Base it on JAVA  Don't panic if you have a problem.  We can fix this later.
   5. Click on "Clone" using https and copy the link.
3. Create a directory for CSC346 if you have not done so already.  Open a terminal in that directory.
4. At the terminal, type `git clone &lt;paste the url coped when you cloned the directory.&gt;
5. Start code and open the homework directory

## Test the updates

At some point in this process VS Code will try to link VS Code to your github account.  I suggest that you allow that link to happen.  The method changes based on your OS and the exact version of VS Code that you have.  If you can't get that to work we can fix it after classes start.

I suggest you change the README.md file.  Maybe add a paragraph with a little statement about the repo used for homework.

The "git" icon on the left of your screen should now show that a file has been modified.  

* Click on the git icon on the left.
* Hit the + next to the file 
* Type a brief message in the text field.  There is a 50-character limit.
* Click the checkmark to make the commit on your local machine.
* Click the sync button to upload the file to github
* Go back to the repo on github and make sure the change to the README.md file is uploaded.

## When to make commits

I like to follow the rule that commits should represent working code.  It doesn't have to be finished.  It should at least compile without syntax errors.