# 00.010 Introduction

* People have a variety of backgrounds in Java
* People have forgotten Java
* Objective is to get everyone to a common starting point

These notes are at [https://github.com/noynaert/csc346handouts](https://github.com/noynaert/csc346handouts)

## Which Java?

We need a Java Development Kit (JDK).  Note that this is different than the Java Runtime Environment (JRE).

You will probably need to update your version.  You may figure out what you have with the following commands:

```bash
   java   --version
   javac  --version
```

### Which Distribution?

* Oracle JDK 
* OpenJDK
* RedHat JDK

### Which Version?

Use of "Long Term Support" or LTS versions are recommended for Java development.

It is possible to have more than one version of Java on your system.  This is by design.  But it is important to make sure you IDE is using the version you intend to use.

### Minimum version for CSC 346

* Use of a LTS version is recommended
* We will be using features not added until Version 11
* Version 17 LTS is recommended.  Version 11 LTS is the minimum.
### Updating Java
* Updating Windows and Mac:  You are on your own.  But as CSC students in an upper-level class you should be able to figure it out.
* [Updating Ubuntu to OpenJDK 17](https://techviewleo.com/install-java-openjdk-on-ubuntu-linux/)

These are my notes on my installation.  They are generally based on the above link.  The above link works best if you do not have Java installed already.  I had to play with the Linux `alternatives-update` command to get OpenJDK 17 set as the default

```bash
wget https://download.java.net/java/GA/jdk17/0d483333a00540d886896bac774ff48b/35/GPL/openjdk-17_linux-x64_bin.tar.gz
sudo tar xvf openjdk-17_linux-x64_bin.tar.gz
sudo mv jdk-17 /opt/

# Set environmental variables.  I had to add these manually to my ~/.profile
export JAVA_HOME=/opt/jdk-17
export PATH=$PATH:$JAVA_HOME/bin 
sudo update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/java "java" $JAVA_HOME/bin/java 1
sudo update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/javac "javac" $JAVA_HOME/bin/javac 1
sudo update-alternatives --config java  # Then pick the jdk-17 option
sudo update-alternatives --config javac # Then pick the jdk-17 option

# test versions
echo $JAVA_HOME
javac --version
java --version
```
You may want to logoff and back on to make sure your preferred version survives.
