# 00.020 IDE

## UPDATE FOR Spring 2025

This semester, the official IDE will be the IntelliJ Idea, version 2024.3.x  There is a free Community edition and an Ultimate addition.  We will be needing features of the Ultimate edition later in the course.  The ultimate edition is expensive, but you may register for a free license by using your MissouriWestern.edu email address.

### Other IDES

This is an upper level course in Computer Science.  I expect students who are committed to using other IDEs to be able to figure out how to make them work.  If you can´t get something to work in another IDE, then you will need to use Idea Ultimate.

#### IDEs

* Intellij -- This may be the best Java IDE available.  There is a free Community Edition and a Pro Version that is rather expensive.  The Community Edition does lack features we will need in this course.  The good news is that you may get free access to the Pro Edition if you register your @missouriwestern.edu email address
* VS Code -- VS Code has been getting better and better.  In fact, as I was typing this a notification popped up with an upgrade of the RedHat Java package.
* Eclipse -- Eclipse has a Spring Edition.  In fact, I think it is the officially supported IDE.  In my experience the biggest problem with Eclipse in a classroom environment is that Eclipse is easy to customize.  Everyone's installed version seems to work differently than everyone else in the class.
* Netbeans -- We used to use Netbeans.  However, it seems to have fallen behind the other major IDEs.  But it may work.

