# 00.112 Working with your Git Repository and Github

## GH CLI option

Github has developed its own command line interface (CLI) tool called `gh`.  This tool allows you to interact with Github from the command line.  You can use it to create repositories, manage issues, and perform other tasks.  You can find more information at https://cli.github.com/.

You may use it if you wish, but I would prefer that you use the standard git command line tool until you are comfortable with git and remote repositories.

The `gh` tool only works with Github, and it does not work with other git hosting platforms such as GitLab or Bitbucket.  The standard git command line tool works with all git hosting platforms.

## Cloning your repository

 Clone the repository to your local computer.  This will copy the repository into a directory on your local computer.  Open a terminal and use cd to move to the directory where you want to store your homework for this course.  Use the following command to clone the repository.  Substitute your Github username and the name of your repository.

    git clone git@github.com:user/repository.git

    ## Using git commands

    Git commands only work inside a git repository.  You must be in the directory or subdirectory of the git repository to use git commands.

    ## Basic git commands
    Here are some basic git commands that you will use frequently:

    - `git status` - Show the status of the repository.  This will show you which files have been modified, which files are staged for commit, and which files are untracked.
    - `git add <file>` - Stage a file for commit.  This will add the file to the staging area.  A common variation is `git add .` which stages all modified and untracked files in the current directory and its subdirectories.  If you are in the root of your repository, this stages all changes in the repository. 
    - `git commit -m "message"` - Commit the staged files to the repository.  The message should be a brief description of the changes you made.
    - `git push` - Push the committed changes to the remote repository on Github.
    - `git pull` - Pull the latest changes from the remote repository on Github. This is useful if you are working on two different computers or if you are collaborating with others.  If you are only maintaining your homwork on a single computer, you probably will not need to use this command.

## Edit the README.md file

You can use any text editor (not a word processor) to edit the README.md file.  You can also use an IDE such as VS Code or IntelliJ IDEA.  However, I suggest using something like VS Code that has built-in support for Git.  

When using VS Code, try to open folders, not individual files.  This will allow VS Code to recognize the Git repository.  Both VS Code and git "think" in terms of directories (folders).

The README.md file is a markdown file.  Markdown is a simple markup language that allows you to format text.  You can use markdown to create headings, lists, links, and other formatting.

* Use # to create the title.  On the first line of the file you should see a # followed by a space and then the title of the project.
* Use ## to create sub-headings.  Be sure to put a space after the ##, and make sure the ## are the first characters on the line.
Double space at the end of a line to create a line break. ***Do not indent the first line of paragraphs.***

## .gitignore file

The .gitignore file tells Git which files and directories to ignore.  This is useful for ignoring files that are generated by the IDE or build system, such as .class files or .idea directories.

It starts with a period.   In Linux and Unix systems (including MacOS), files that start with a period are hidden files.  You can use the command `ls -a` to see hidden files in a directory.

I suggest adding the following lines to the .gitignore file:

```
# Ignore temporary files
*.tmp
*.log
*.bak
tmp/*

## Now let's update the repository

```
  git stash
  git add .
  git commit -m 'Initial commit'
  git push

  Now, go look at your github repository in your web browser.  You should see the README.md file and the .gitignore file with your updates.

